About the job
A Business Intelligence Analyst might gather, clean, and analyze data like revenue, sales, market information, or customer engagement metrics of a business. BI analysts can also be asked to program tools and data models to help visualize or monitor data.
Experience: 3+ Years
Technical:
Development of high-quality database solutions
Strong in SQL and Good knowledge in PL/SQL.
Should be knowledgeable in SQL Performance Tuning, Joins, UNION, etc., and writing optimized SQL queries.
Develop queries & procedures, functions, and triggers, create custom reports 
Provide scheduled management reporting
Must have used the OBIEE platform at least for a year in the last two years
Teamwork:
Must promote a collaborative environment within and across IT teams.
Project Management:
Must be organized, self-sufficient and have the ability to manage multiple initiatives simultaneously. Must have the ability to coordinate with other teams and vendors to ensure that project workflow is effectively communicated.
Responsibilities: 
Maintaining data analytics platforms
Evaluating and improving existing BI systems.
Conducting troubleshooting on BI models.
Generating and delivering quality reports to all departments and performing quality assurance checks on reports.
Creating and managing tables, views, indexes, DB-link, and other database objects in the Oracle database.
Identifying installation solutions for new databases.
Publishing and/or presenting design reports
Should be able to research required data.
Provides mentoring and training to other team members to aid in their individual development to help improve overall team performance.
Analyzing business requirements to design, develop and update dashboards, reports, and data extracts. 
Review and interpret ongoing business report requirements and coordinate with business teams.
Job Requirements:
Minimum 3 years of experience needed in core SQL development
PL-SQL programming & Microsoft SQL Server concepts
HTML and JavaScript
